# Block Generation FAQ

This article describes possible solutions for the issues that can happen during block generation.

## My node is running but no blocks are generated

**Question**: My latest version node is running fine (appending microblocks) and the block height signatures compared with [wavesexplorer.com](https://wavesexplorer.com/) are correct which indicates that the node is not on fork. Suddenly the node failed to generate several blocks. The logs contain messages indicating that the node "will try to forge in xxx,xx seconds" but generating does not actually happen. What can I do?

**Answer**: Your node may fail to generate blocks because the block generation process is probabilistic. Such log messages ("will try to forge in xxx...") indicate that your node scheduled generating blocks according to LPOS formula after the last key block is received. However, there is always a chance that another node had scheduled to generate the block at earlier time. You can use [wavesexplorer.com](https://wavesexplorer.com/) website to check the actual generation timestamp and the ID of the node that succeeded (was the first one) to generate a block.

**Example**: At 11:59:20 your node planned an attempt to generate block at 12:00:05, but when you check at [wavesexplorer.com](https://wavesexplorer.com/), you see that another node generated block at 12:00:03.

You can use the following command to review the generating attempts in your log and check what node actually succeeded to generate a block:

```bash
grep "Next attempt\|Appended" waves.log
```

**Response example**:

```bash
2020-09-07 10:27:55,076 DEBUG [appender-52] c.w.mining.MinerImpl - Next attempt for acc=<redacted> in 508.710 seconds
2020-09-07 10:27:55,147 DEBUG [ecution-context-global-48] c.w.s.a.BlockAppender$ - [2ecdf572 134.209.30.86:56992] Appended Block(DeB2bwPeJkpDMpLEvHm8MRg3axpYtwupMZi5uRigrLZo,CPX3P6rvYttUhUFtM2MTHdJ4AALFyfdfDey5oH9CGJXP,3PJEPHsDNtfDRxxaja8wEp3mCXp5kpLYsLS,1599474474614,[])

2020-09-07 10:29:50,072 DEBUG [appender-52] c.w.mining.MinerImpl - Next attempt for acc=<redacted> in 457.722 seconds
2020-09-07 10:29:50,161 DEBUG [ecution-context-global-48] c.w.s.a.BlockAppender$ - [7895562c 173.249.1.184:60940] Appended Block(2fXUoLdh4XmDkuTfdZ7bPyvubBfEdhQ989X5P27nbHby,8hs8fTy52sJyzJwxMb75A38JAxsEPjycMTyfCbbrW9XB,3PEFQiFMLm1gTVjPdfCErG8mTHRcH2ATaWa,1599474589929,[],600000000)
```

This example response indicates that the `c.w.mining.MinerImpl` node received block `DeB2bwPeJkpDMpLEvHm8MRg3axpYtwupMZi5uRigrLZo` and at `2020-09-07 10:27:55,076` the node planned an attempt to generate the next block in `508.710` seconds (~ at 10:34:23). The response also says that the processing of block `DeB2bwPeJkpDMpLEvHm8MRg3axpYtwupMZi5uRigrLZo` is complete and the node received the next validated block `2fXUoLdh4XmDkuTfdZ7bPyvubBfEdhQ989X5P27nbHby` generated by `3PEFQiFMLm1gTVjPdfCErG8mTHRcH2ATaWa`node at `2020-09-07 10:29:50,072` (earlier than the `c.w.mining.MinerImpl` node planned generating the next block). In this case the `c.w.mining.MinerImpl` node did not succeed to generate block at 10:34:23 because the new block was generated earlier by `3PEFQiFMLm1gTVjPdfCErG8mTHRcH2ATaWa` node.



**Note**: You can use [dev.pywaves.org](https://dev.pywaves.org/) website to review block generators performance ratio (Performance ratio = Mined blocks / Estimated blocks). Please keep in mind that short-term (daily) estimates are for reference only.

## Other Issues

If you have other node-related issues to report or discuss with Waves community, see [Keep in Touch](/en/keep-in-touch/) chapter for contact information.
